Let's talk about hardware requirements when going from
a local Spark installation to Spark on a cluster.
Spark provides three options for working on a cluster;
Standalone Mode, MESOS, and YARN.
MESOS and YARN are for sharing a Spark cluster
across an entire team of engineers and analysts.
So, we'll stick to Standalone Mode for this course.
As a reminder from lesson one,
memory is only for short-term storage.
It's like your computer's scratch paper.
On the other hand, long-term storage like an SSD is like a file cabinet for your data.
When you run a program the CPU requests the data which gets pulled from SSD into memory.
Once the data is in your memory,
the CPU can quickly use it to run calculations.
With small data sets,
all of this happens on a same computer.
With big data, the data is often too big to store on a single machine,
so it's kept on a separate computer.
As a Data Scientist at accompany,
you'll usually run your Spark jobs on data stored in an external database
or a third-party storage rented from a Cloud computing provider like Amazon.
To build a Spark cluster,
you could go out and buy a handful of computers but it's usually easier to use
cloud computing through Amazon Web Services
which everyone in the industry just calls AWS.
With AWS, you can rent a cluster of machines and
expand or shrink the cluster size as you need.
The actual machines are located in data centers spread
throughout the world but you don't have to worry about that.
You just log in from anywhere to use them.
Our setup will look like this.
We'll use Amazon S3 to store the dataset.
Separately, we'll rent machines for our Spark cluster from Amazon
using their service called Elastic Compute Cloud or EC2 for short.
Then we'll log in to the cluster remotely.
When we run our Spark code,
a cluster will load the dataset from S3 into
the cluster's memory putting a portion of the data onto each machine in the cluster.
To follow along, you'll want to set up
your own AWS cluster using the instructions in the next part of the lesson.